\pdfbookmark[1]{Abstract}{Abstract}
\begingroup
\let\clearpage\relax
\let\cleardoublepage\relax
\let\cleardoublepage\relax

\chapter*{Abstract}
\TODO{This is a very rough draft written after 24 hours of sleeplessness. Be
ruthless in your editing/rewriting/deleting/whatever.} As heat generation and
power consumption has put up a ceiling for how large and fast processors can be
built, parallelism has risen to become the de facto standard for computing.
Everything from cellphones to desktop computers now carry multiple processing
cores to perform their functions. But parallelism is of course not a new
concept; for many decades exploiting the parallel nature of certain data to
effectivize computation has been a known tactic. Especially within the field of
image processing has parallelism proved itself a good fit.

Although MIMD-systems have taken hold as the dominant class of parallel systems
for general computing, we wanted to explore alternatives which may work better
for certain applications. The result of this project is the computer ``256
Shades of Gray``, an array based SIMD-architecture optimized for very
parallelizable tasks such as image processing.

``256 Shades of Gray``(henceforth refered to as ``TSOG``\TODO{Or?}) consists of
a custom PCB-design, a microprocessor system control unit and a FPGA on which
our SIMD-architecture is implemented. It accepts input through a SD-card reader
(with RS-232 and USB as backup), and shows its output through a custom VGA
controller.

We have been greatly inspired by the Goodyear MPP architecture, which clearly
shows in our design. Simplicity was strived for at all times to be able to fit
as many cores as possible within limited resources.

In the end the design has gone through fairly rigorous testing, and has met both
the functional and non-functional requirements we set out to meet. The
architecture has shown itself a good fit for multiple common image processing
tasks. The architecture has shown itself a good fit for multiple common image
processing tasks.
\endgroup
