\section{Component Functionality}

This section describes the different components and their functionality. A list
of ordered parts can be found in \ref{app:ordered-parts}.

\subsection{SCU}\TODO{Have we mentioned the SCU somewhere?}

The microcontroller is mainly used to send data from the SD card to the LENA
architecture. It also converts data from the BMP format\TODO{Does it actually do
  that?} to a format LENA is able to process. LENA can be started and stopped by
the SCU, and it is also responsible for sending the wanted program to LENA,
which stores it in the instruction memory. 

Selecting programs is done by the SCU. This is done by listening on the buttons
we have on the machine.

\subsection{LENA}

NF4 constrained our high level choices on the image processor architecture:
There was a requirement that we had to have multiple cores arranged in a
matrix. As the matrix would perform image processing, it was natural for us to
choose a SIMD architecture. Many image processing algorithms do the exact same
operation on every pixel, and having a SIMD architecture reduces both
complexity and size needed per core on the FPGA significantly.

Other design choices that followed was the introduction of a control core, a DMA
and a VGA controller. The control core is responsible for sending data to the
SIMD nodes and the VGA controller, whereas the DMA is responsible for writing
data from the SIMD nodes back into memory. The VGA controller is responsible for
handling the VGA memory and sending the correct signals to the VGA port. In
addition, as the SIMD nodes usually depend heavily on their neighbour's data, we
decided to have ``dummy nodes'' outside the real SIMD nodes. Their only function
is to transmit data to the edge nodes. As such, we can still utilize the edge
nodes for computation when neighbour data is needed.

\subsubsection{Word size}

The word size of the LENA system is an important aspect of the system which
have a critical impact on performance. Our choice between small and large
register\TODO{Word size? But shouldn't confuse the reader between the size of
  the registers on the SIMD nodes and the instruction size either} size, and
small and large instruction sets will have a huge impact on the number of cores
we are able to get on the FPGA. On one side, we have the Massively Parallel
Processor\cite{potter1985mpp} with 1 bit per core and focuses on many cores to
speed up the system. On the other side, we have Intel's MMX instructions which
allows one to do multiple, single instructions on different 64-bit and 128-bit
registers and is used to speed up e.g. image processing\cite{lee2004h264}. As
both techniques certainly work, we have to find the one which gives us the most
performance and is realizable within the resource constraints. Certainly, we
need to have multiple cores to fulfil NFR4, but the overall goal is to get
performance. If we get a better performance by allowing more operations on the
system, we should do that instead.

From calculations\TODO{Should we have the calculations?} and an estimated guess
on how complex such a system would be, we set ourselves\TODO{set ourselves?
  Sounds very wrong} on a system with 8 bit register size and 24 bit instruction
size. From our assumptions, we could get around 16 SIMD nodes and an instruction
set with reasonably efficient instructions for image processing.

\subsubsection{Memory}

The memory is split over three different chips: The data memory, the instruction
memory and the VGA memory. All of the RAM is asynchronous SRAM, based on
previous projects success with it\cite{berg2011festinalente}along with the
speed. The main reason for this choice was mostly due to frequent reading and
writing, but also because larger SRAM modules were more costly than multiple
SRAM modules with less memory. An additional benefit from this is that the
complexity is lowered: Fewer potential collisions on RAM reading and writing
occurs since fewer parts read and write to the different RAM chips.

\subsubsection*{Instruction Memory}

We ended up with a 24-bit instruction set for both SIMD nodes and the control
core. As we ended up with a 16-bit program counter, the maximal instruction
count would be 64,000 and the memory chip size is chosen on that basis. While it
may sound like few operations when one know that the SIMD nodes cannot jump, it
is in practice more than enough. To see why, note that the control core can
simulate loops and may start the image algorithm over when a part of the image
has been finished processing.

\subsubsection*{Data Memory}

\subsubsection*{VGA Memory}

\subsection{I/O}

