\section{Assignment}
The task given was to create an {\em array-based} parallel image processor with
focus on performance. After some ideas and calculations, we decided to escalate
the goal to an image processor performant enough to run video. Fast image
processing is essential in robots and in artificial intelligence in order to
work in the real world. Autonomous cars and robots need to process images from
image sensors fast enough to react and e.g. prevent accidents. Image processing
in general is also highly applicable in the medical field and in the petroleum
industry.
% Last sentence = pasta. Should tweak it a bit.

An array processor is a grid of processing elements, where each of the
processing elements are only able to communicate with its north, south, east and
west neighbours. All the processing elements must perform the same instruction
at all times.

\TODO{Fill in some more here}

\subsection{Original Assignment Text}

The performance increase available from harvesting Instruction Level Parallelism
(ILP) from the serial instruction stream is limited because we have reached the
maximum power consumption that can be handled without expensive cooling
solutions \cite{olukotun2005future}. Consequently, there is a significant
interest in single-chip parallel processor solutions (e.g. \cite{bell2008tile64,
  kongetira2005niagara}).

The processor cores in commercial multi-core chips are conventional designs and
therefore reasonably complex. In this work, your task is to design an
array-based parallel image processor. An array processor is organized as a
matrix of processing elements where each element communicates with its neighbors
in the north, south, east and west directions.

Your image processor will be implemented on an FPGA, and you are free to choose
how to realize your array-based computer architecture. The system should be
shown to work with a suitable application. Studying the architecture of the
Goodyear MPP \cite{batcher1980design,wiki:goodyear} might be a possible starting
point.  Due to a large number of students this year, we will divide the work
into two independent projects: a) Performance and b) Energy efficiency. The goal
of group a) is to achieve maximum performance while group b) should try to
balance performance and energy. The reports from both groups should include an
evaluation of prototype performance and energy consumption.

\subsubsection*{Additional requirements}
The unit must utilize an Atmel AVR micro controller and a Xilinx FPGA. The
budget is 10.000 NOK, which must cover components and PCB production. The unit
design must adhere to the limits set by the course staff at any given
time. Deadlines are given in a separate time schedule.
