\section{Architecture}

\input{fig/fpga/architecture}

% Mention clock rate and possibly the reason for choosing it somewhere

An overview of the architecture of LENA as well as its memory and communication
lines is shown in figure \ref{fig:fpga-architecture}. The data flows mostly
through it in one direction. Data is received from the AVR and stored to the
data memory. Then the data is read in parts from the data memory and sent
through the SIMD array for processing. The result from the SIMD array is stored
to the data memory again. At last, the data is copied from the data memory to
the VGA memory and shown on screen.

% Mention that the matrix is well suited for some image filters

The processing element of LENA is the SIMD array. It is organized in a matrix,
as specified by the assignment, and designed to process images. Each node
processes one word at a time and can communicate with its four direct
neighbours. To load the first data into the array, it is sent to the first row
of nodes and copied to the right, passing through all the nodes until the last
row. This is done by using a special register for sending data, called the
S-register. Data is continously received by the first row, so the whole array is
filled. At that time, data processing can start. The data is swapped onto
another register of the node, and new data can be loaded through the S-register.
When both data processing and transmission of new data is done, the registers
are swapped again. At this point, we have results in the S-registers and can
send this out to the right while loading new data from the left. The results is
copied out of the array from the last row.

Data communication between AVR, the SIMD nodes and the VGA controller is handled
by the control module which communicates with the data- and program memory, and
keeps track of the data location on these. The control module sends instructions
to all of the SIMD nodes and is responsible for splitting the data and loading
it into the SIMD array in correct order by setting the S-registers of the first
row. It also retrieves the results from the last row of the array and stores it
to the data memory.

The FPGA receives data from the AVR on 24 input lines. This is enough to
transmit one instruction per tramsmission. All of the instructions are copied
onto the instruction memory before any other data is sent. The image data is
sent at one word (8 bits) at a time. We considered using all 24 lines for data
transmission, but as we tested the transmission rate, we realized that it was
fast enough by only trasmitting one word at a time. This was easier to
implement, and was therefore the chosen implementation.

The SIMD array is created dynamically in VHDL, hence the number of cores is
easily interchangable. The final number of cores in our implementation is only
limited by the available space on the FPGA. We tried to fit as many nodes as
possible, and the FPGA we used had enough space for 6 nodes.
