\section{VGA-controller}

We learned early on that last years group had problems with their off-the-shelf
VGA-controller being a major bottle-neck, and was only able to squeeze out less
than one frame per second. Since one of our goals ({\sc FR1}, see Table
\ref{fig:func-req}) with this project was to hit a minimum frame rate of ten
frames per second, going down the same route with the same controller was
obviously off the table.

After having scoured the Internet for higher-performing VGA-controllers in our
price-range without any luck, and after consulting with Jahre, we decided on
implementing our own VGA-controller within the FPGA.

\input{fig/fpga/vga}

\subsection{Design}
We recognized the importance of allowing the control core to dump pixels to the
VGA-controller at its own pace without having to meet certain timing criteria,
so a physical memory and hence a memory controller was needed. Since the FPGA
is running on 50MHz and the pixel clock should be running on approximately
25MHz, a fairly simple solution for dividing the memory between the control
core and the actual signal generator was found: The signal generator must be
able to read from memory at most every other cycle, so the remaining cycles are
all free for the control core to use. To simplify the design as much as
possible, the memory controller simply alternates every cycle between writing
whatever is asserted on the signals from the control core and reading a pixel
for the signal generator.

The signal generator itself is pretty straightforward. It simply calculates
when to pulse the V-sync and H-sync signals for a given resolution, and outputs
a (8-bit greyscale) pixel fetched from the memory controller at the appropriate
time.

\subsection{Circuitry}
\TODO{Insert small circuit diagram of the physical parts} When designing the
circuit we had to choose between a black-box\TODO{Call it something else?} DAC
and making our own. Preliminary research on the VGA-protocol showed that for
our purposes and our fairly low requirements on quality, making the DAC with
simple resistors in parallel, with each resistor doubling in resistance for
each step from the most significant bit to the least significant, would be
sufficient. We thought this would be easier to debug, and especially easier to
prototype.

We ended up supporting greyscale and color with our circuit, but for now only
greyscale is implemented on the FPGA-side.
